.TH JANET-PM 1
.SH NAME
janet-pm \- the Janet Project Manager, a build tool for Janet
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B janet-pm
[\fB\-\-flag ...\fR]
[\fB\-\-option=value ...\fR]
.IR command
.IR args ...

.SH DESCRIPTION
Run from a directory containing a project.janet file to perform
operations on a project, or from anywhere to do operations on the
global module cache (modpath). Commands that need write permission to
the modpath are considered privileged commands - in some environments
they may require super user privileges. Other project-level commands
need to have a ./project.janet file in the current directory.

.SH DOCUMENTATION

.SH GLOBAL COMMANDS

.TP
.BR help
Show this help text.

.TP
.BR install\ [\fBrepo...\fR]
Install remote bundles, and any required dependencies.

.TP
.BR clear-cache
Clear the cache of saved remote dependencies.

.TP
.BR list-pkgs\ [\fBsearch\fR]
List packages in the remote package listing that contain the
string search. If no search pattern is given, prints the
entire package listing.

.TP
.BR env\ name
Create an environment with which one can install Janet dependencies
and scripts in an isolated manner.

.TP
.BR new-project\ [\fBname\fR]
Create a new Janet project in a directory `name`.

.TP
.BR new-simple-project\ [\fBname\fR]
Create a new Janet project that can be installed and distributed without spork in a directory `name`.

.TP
.BR new-c-project\ [\fBname\fR]
Create a new C+Janet project in a directory `name`.

.TP
.BR new-exe-project\ [\fBname\fR]
new-exe-project name
Create a new project for an executable in a directory `name`.

.SH PER-PROJECT COMMANDS

.TP
.BR deps
Install dependencies for the current project.

.TP
.BR install\ [\fBrepos...\fR]
Install artifacts of the current project. Shorthand for `janet --install .`

.TP
.BR uninstall\ [\fBrepos...\fR]
Uninstall the current project's artifacts. Shorthand for `janet --uninstall {current-project-name}`

.TP
.BR prune
Remove any bundles that have no dependents and are marked for auto-remove.

.TP
.BR build
Build all artifacts of the project. The build configuration is determined by JANET_BUILD_TYPE, and the
location of artifacts will by in the JANET_BUILD_DIR directory.

.TP
.BR clean
Remove any generated files or artifacts. Calls the `(clean)` hook.

.TP
.BR test
Run tests. Tests should be .janet files in the test/ directory
relative to project.janet. Will patch the module paths to load
built native code without installing it. Shorthand for `run check`.

.TP
.BR quickbin\ [\fBentry\fR]\ [\fBoutput\fR]
Create an executable file from a script, statically linking in any dependencies found while compiling
the script. The script should contain a main function that will serve as the main function for the generated
executable.

.TP
.BR save-lockfile\ [\fBdestination\fR]
Save all currently installed bundles to a lockfile.

.TP
.BR load-lockfile\ [\fBsource\fR]
Install all bundles in the given lockfile.

.SH ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

janet-pm inherits all of the environment variables used by janet, as well some of its own. Many of these are
only used in support of building bundles that use a project.janet.

.B JANET_BUILD_DIR
.RS
Where to create build outputs when building a bundle has a project.janet. Defaults to _build.
.RE

.B JANET_BUILD_TYPE
.RS
What kind of build to make when building a bundle that has a project.janet.
Should be "develop", "release", or "debug".
.RE

.B JANET_CURL
.RS
Where to get the "curl" command when handling project.janet. Defaults to "curl".
.RE

.B JANET_GIT
.RS
Where to get the "git" command when handling project.janet. Defaults to "git".
.RE

.B JANET_OFFLINE
.RS
If set to 1, true, on, etc., will only look at packages in the local cache.
.RE

.B JANET_PKGLIST
.RS
The package listing repository to use to resolve package nicknames. Defaults to https://github.com/janet-lang/pkgs.git
.RE

.B JANET_PREFIX
.RS
Where POSIX toolchain will look for Janet headers and libjanet.a. By default, will try to autodetect by searching through the
syspath, the PREFIX environment variable, /usr/, and /usr/local. Most installs should not need to set this, but otherwise should
be set to whatever PREFIX was when janet was installed.
.RE

.B JANET_TAR
.RS
Where to get the "tar" command. Defaults to "tar".
.RE

.B JANET_TOOLCHAIN
.RS
Name of the toolchain to use to compile project.janet based natives. Should be one of "gcc", "clang", "msvc", or "cc".
Defaults to autodetecting based on the presence of other environment variables MSVC, GCC, CLANG, and CC.
Will then finally default to whatever compiler was used to compile the `janet` executable running this script. This
is the output of `janet -e '(print (os/compiler))'`
.RE

.B VERBOSE
.RS
Print full output from running commands.
.RE

.B WORKERS
.RS
Number of processes to run in parallel when compiling C and C++ source code.
.RE
